		    SYMPHONY PRE(historic)PROCESSOR README
                                                                            
HOW TO INSTALL
--------------
Just type make after editing the Makefile so that the config directory and the
location of SYMPHONY are proper.

Read file LICENSE for license and copyright information.


WHAT HAPPENS ON MAKE
---------------------
On typing make, the following files of SYMPHONY are replaced to accomodate the
preprocessor: master.c, master_func.c, master_params.h, master.h, Makefile
[Symphony's Makefile]. Original files are copied into symphony_backup. If you
make more than once, you will invariably need to answer 'no' to all overwrite
queries.

To restore files run 'make unmake'. You will have to make symphony again after
that. 


HOW TO USE
------------
Preprocessing options may be changed in the options file given to symphony.
(./symphony -f options.file -F file.mps)

NAME OF PARAMETER		DEFAULT VALUE
prep_do_preprocessing		1
prep_do_probing			1
prep_verbosity			0
prep_probing_verbosity		0
prep_probing_level		1
prep_display_stats		1


WHAT IS A PREPROCESSOR
-----------------------
The primary purpose of a preprocessor is to simplify an integer programming
problem (IP) as much as possible, without solving LPs. It tries to remove
redundant constraints, fix variables, tighten bounds etc.

Probing, on the other hand, tries to find relations between two (binary
variables). This may be used to fix variables and to find logical implications.
Logical implications may be used for clique-cuts, disaggregation etc. Probing
can also be carried out on constraints.

Current preprocessor stops after finding logical implications. No
cuts/constraints/inequalities are added based on these. Read TODO for more
information. 


WHY prehistoric?
------------------
There are several reasons for this:
1. Preprocessing has been there in other solvers for years now.
2. It took more than 1 year to make this preprocessor and is still incomplete.
3. Coding and debugging style are pretty pre-historic. So is the computer on
   which this was written. Also the author has a pre-disposition for pre-hisoric
   life-style. 
